Java EE is already the perfect solution for complex business/enterprise systems, and provides all of the tools and foundations required to deliver scalable, performant applications for a wide variety of customers and clients. But how does the end-user experience stack up? How easy is it to navigate on your website, code full of nasty navigation logic? Are your links clear, transparent, and informative? How frequently do you find yourself adding '?query=parameters' in order to serve dynamic content from your application? These are all things that PrettyFaces URL-rewriting can help with, and if your answer to any of these questions was not satisfactory, then this session is for you.

How PrettyFaces works: The talk introduces you to URL rewriting, storing contextual information – safely – and managing page configuration data with address and query parameters. PrettyFaces’ centralized approach uses URLs to retain the state of pages, meaning less information must be stored in session and application scoped beans.

Rethinking navigation: Navigation from the eye of the client. JSF supports page flows well, but managing simple transitions from one page to another can be complex. Examples of PrettyFaces integrated navigation, hyper-linking via "mapping IDs," and built-in components will show how developers gain increased control over all aspects of navigation out of the box, and how this is accomplished without burdensome configuration.

SEO: You will be presented with brief concepts of how to improve client experience, search rank, and conversions through URL parameterization and linking – the importance the browser URL plays an in establishing trust through all client interactions.

Dynamic Content: It is rare in today's world, that an application be purely static. Most applications, even on the web, take inputs and provide output that changes to meet the requested parameters. We will examine a case-study of creating an application that serves generated bar-code images using only PrettyFaces, CDI, and Java Server Faces.

Examples & Community: What better to wrap up a presentation other than real examples of how to use and tie together what you’ve learned. Together we will create a new Java EE application, and also integrate PrettyFaces into an existing application, exploring the ease of URL-rewriting in the case of new-development, and also enhancing existing works.
